packages/cmk-frontend-vue/README.md, before:

# cmk-frontend-vue

## Development

The run script and BUILD bazel file define the entry points to this
component, for example:

```sh
./run -h
./run --all
bazel run :vite [-- <ARGS>]
bazel run :vitest [-- <ARGS>]
```

## IDE Support

It's non trivial to set up bazel in such a way that js tooling will have
access to all required modules. The current suggested practice is to
create a local node_modules folder. Our tsconfig will fall back onto the
bazel workspace to find any modules provided by our repo.

To create a local node_modules folder, do:

```bash
bazel run -- @pnpm//:pnpm --dir $PWD install --frozen-lockfile
```

## Trying out changes in a site

### f12

f12 is working, but is using the production ready build process and
therefore not super fast (currently six seconds)

### Dev server

To combine both the vite auto hot reload and the site, the proxy feature of the
vite dev server is used.

To watch file changes across the bazelized components, you need to use
`ibazel` instead of `bazel`.

* download https://github.com/bazelbuild/bazel-watcher/releases/latest/download/ibazel_linux_amd64
  and add it to your path
* run `ibazel run :vite`
* surf to `http://localhost:5173/<yoursite>/check_mk/` (tailing slash is
  important, otherwise checkmk will redirect to a url without the port)
* enable "Inject cmk-frontend-vue files via vite client" in "User Interface"
  in "Experimental Features" in "global settings"

Checkmk should then automatically reload as soon as you change a file of the
cmk-frontend-vue project.

## Demo App

To try our reusable components outside a checkmk site, you can

* run `ibazel run :vite -- --config vite.config.demo.ts`
* surf to `http://localhost:5174/`

or

* Visit https://devdocs.lan.checkmk.net/frontend-demo/

The hosted demo app is built from the master branch daily. It can also
be manually deployed by triggering the "Build and deploy frontend-demo"
jenkins job.

## Package management

If you need to change the dependencies you can do so by running pnpm
inside bazel, for example:

```sh
# Install package "foo"
bazel run -- @pnpm//:pnpm --dir $PWD install foo
# Update package "foo"
bazel run -- @pnpm//:pnpm --dir $PWD update foo
# Update lock file if package.json was edited manually
bazel run -- @pnpm//:pnpm --dir $PWD install --lockfile-only
```

If you add a new package, append a `":node_modules/<new-package>"` item
to the SRCS list in the `BUILD` file.

Commit message:

Add guide for vite hmr to increase performance
Additionally revert the usePolling option that was originally introduced
as the basic behavior didn't pick up consecutive reloads. As it is the
more resource-hungry option, we reverted it. Brief testing showed
that the problem seems to have been fixed upstream.

CMK-28985

Change-Id: I59d7875b988a324d8918bdb1f410eb6474b7f97f

packages/cmk-frontend-vue/README.md, after:

# cmk-frontend-vue

## Development

The run script and BUILD bazel file define the entry points to this
component, for example:

```sh
./run -h
./run --all
bazel run :vite [-- <ARGS>]
bazel run :vitest [-- <ARGS>]
```

## IDE Support

It's non trivial to set up bazel in such a way that js tooling will have
access to all required modules. The current suggested practice is to
create a local node_modules folder. Our tsconfig will fall back onto the
bazel workspace to find any modules provided by our repo.

To create a local node_modules folder, do:

```bash
bazel run -- @pnpm//:pnpm --dir $PWD install --frozen-lockfile
```

## Trying out changes in a site

### f12

f12 is working, but is using the production ready build process and
therefore not super fast (currently six seconds)

### Dev server

To combine both the vite auto hot reload and the site, the proxy feature of the
vite dev server is used.

To watch file changes across the bazelized components, you need to use
`ibazel` instead of `bazel`.

* download https://github.com/bazelbuild/bazel-watcher/releases/latest/download/ibazel_linux_amd64
  and add it to your path
* run `ibazel run :vite`
* surf to `http://localhost:5173/<yoursite>/check_mk/` (tailing slash is
  important, otherwise checkmk will redirect to a url without the port)
* enable "Inject cmk-frontend-vue files via vite client" in "User Interface"
  in "Experimental Features" in "global settings"

Checkmk should then automatically reload as soon as you change a file of the
cmk-frontend-vue project.

**Attention:** If you encounter severe performance problems (consecutive
pages after first load taking >1s to render or outright crashing) or
trouble with the hot reloading of files, please follow the steps in
[Vite's troubleshooting
page](https://vite.dev/guide/troubleshooting#requests-are-stalled-forever).
The inotify & `DefaultLimitNOFILE=65536` settings have proven to be
effective. Make sure to restart the machine as instructed. If problems
persist, reach out to Team Bug.

## Demo App

To try our reusable components outside a checkmk site, you can

* run `ibazel run :vite -- --config vite.config.demo.ts`
* surf to `http://localhost:5174/`

or

* Visit https://devdocs.lan.checkmk.net/frontend-demo/

The hosted demo app is built from the master branch daily. It can also
be manually deployed by triggering the "Build and deploy frontend-demo"
jenkins job.

## Package management

If you need to change the dependencies you can do so by running pnpm
inside bazel, for example:

```sh
# Install package "foo"
bazel run -- @pnpm//:pnpm --dir $PWD install foo
# Update package "foo"
bazel run -- @pnpm//:pnpm --dir $PWD update foo
# Update lock file if package.json was edited manually
bazel run -- @pnpm//:pnpm --dir $PWD install --lockfile-only
```

If you add a new package, append a `":node_modules/<new-package>"` item
to the SRCS list in the `BUILD` file.
