[//]: # (werk v2)
# mk_oracle: Follow-up to privilege escalation fix: sqlnet.ora

key        | value
---------- | ---
compatible | no
version    | 2.4.0b1
date       | 2024-04-05T09:38:28+00:00
level      | 1
class      | fix
component  | checks
edition    | cre

You are affected by this Werk if you use mk_oracle agent plugin on unix.

<tt>mk_oracle</tt> only works if it can find a <tt>sqlnet.ora</tt> in your
<tt>$TNS_ADMIN</tt> folder. In the past, <tt>mk_oracle</tt> executed all oracle
binaries as root, so <tt>sqlnet.ora</tt> was always readable. With <a
href="https://checkmk.com/werk/16232">Werk #16232</a> the oracle binaries are
executed with a low privileged user, so it might be the case, that
<tt>sqlnet.ora</tt> can not be read by this user.

<tt>mk_oracle</tt> will exit early if it can not read <tt>sqlnet.ora</tt>. The
error message might look like:

<code>
/etc/check_mk/sqlnet.ora can not be read by user "oracle"! Either use 'sqlnet.ora permission group' bakery rule, or directly modify permissions of the file.
</code>

The error message will also be visible in the <tt>oracle_instance</tt> check.

If you use the agent bakery to roll out mk_oracle to unix servers using
<tt>.rpm</tt>, <tt>.deb</tt> or Solaris <tt>.pkg</tt> packages, you have to use
the 'sqlnet.ora permission group' bakery rule to adapt the group of the
<tt>sqlnet.ora</tt> file, otherwise your permission changes might be
overwritten by updating the agent.

Otherwise, it is sufficient to adapt the permissions.

If you install the agent on Unix using the <tt>tgz</tt> package, you will have
to manually adjust the permissions of the <tt>sqlnet.ora</tt> file.
