[//]: # (werk v2)
# Copy unacknowledged Werks to updated site

key        | value
---------- | ---
date       | 2025-05-14T08:23:50+00:00
version    | 2.5.0b1
class      | feature
edition    | cre
component  | wato
level      | 1
compatible | yes

Since [Werk #15292](https://checkmk.com/werk/15292) we only ship the
Werks of the current major version with Checkmk. If the Checkmk instance
has unacknowledged incompatible Werks, the update is interrupted to make
the user aware of the fact that they will lose the information which
Werks they have not acknowledged.

With this Werk, the process will be adapted:

Checkmk will still ship only with the Werks of the current major
version, but the unacknowledged incompatible Werks will be copied from
the version to the site during the update process, so the information
which incompatible Werks have not been acknowledged will not be lost.

The copied Werks will age out:
1. They will be marked as acknowledged if they have been acknowledged
   (normal behaviour similar to the Werks that ship with the Checkmk
   version).
2. They will no longer be visible in the Checkmk Werks browser after
   they have been acknowledged and Checkmk was restarted.
3. They will be removed from the site, after hey have been acknowledged
   and another update has been performed.

On the [website](https://checkmk.com/werks) a Werk can have multiple
Checkmk Versions. In Checkmk a Werk has only a single Version. In case
the Werk is copied to the site the Version changes:

Example: Werk 123 was added to 2.4.0 and 2.5.0 and is incompatible. The
user updates from 2.4.0 but has not acknowledged the Werk.
It will be shown with a 2.4.0 Version in the Werks browser in the
updated site. Once the Werk is acknowledged and the the site updated
afterwards, the Werk will have a 2.5.0 Version and still be
acknowledged.

