[//]: # (werk v2)
# Enhanced MS SQL Server monitoring

key        | value
---------- | ---
date       | 2024-04-03T07:47:56+00:00
version    | 2.4.0b1
class      | feature
edition    | cre
component  | checks
level      | 2
compatible | yes

With this release MS SQL Server is monitored using new plugin and new GUI.

The old plugin is still supported but are considered deprecated.

Key Enhancements out-of-the-box:

- Configuration flexibility: The plugin can be configured through a YAML config file for any edition and/or a graphical user interface (GUI) for enterprise edition or better.
- Cross platform: The plugin can be deployed on Linux and Windows.
- Enhanced monitoring capabilities: Supports monitoring of remote databases on both Linux and Windows hosts, in addition to local monitoring on Windows hosts.
- Customizable monitoring sections: Sections are now selectable and configurable
- Customizable SQL statements: you may change SQL statement either manually(place file in `mssql` sub directory in config dir) or using `Custom files` rule in GUI.
- Multi-instance support: Enables the selection of different instances for monitoring. Every instance can be configured separately
- Multi-host support: possible to monitor databases on various hosts using one deployed plugin.
- Security enhancements: Limited support for certificates is now available.
- Asynchronous operation: Any section with exception `instances`  can be set up for asynchronous operation.
- Piggyback: It's possible to direct the output of a plugin to a different host, rather than to the host that retrieves the data.
- Other improvements:
    - Automatic detection of instances is possible for any Windows host, local and remote, depending on SQL Server Setup.
    - Full logging support including rotation and file limits
    - Limit for maximal connection counts
    - Cache time and timeout can be configured too

With regard to the old plug-in, there are also a few restrictions at the moment:
- The database instances must be accessible via TCP/IP.
- If several databases are running on a system, each using their own IP addresses, these must be explicitly specified in the configuration of the agent plug-in, as the addresses and ports are currently not yet found automatically.