[//]: # (werk v2)
# Introduce distributed tracing of Checkmk

key        | value
---------- | ---
date       | 2024-08-09T06:32:56+00:00
version    | 2.4.0b1
class      | feature
edition    | cre
component  | core
level      | 2
compatible | yes

With this change, we aim to improve our capabilities as Checkmk developers to
understand the performance and behavior of Checkmk in a distributed environment
better. This will help us to identify issues and bottlenecks and improve the
performance of Checkmk in the future. Besides logging, metrics and profiling, it
is another tool which gives us great insights.

This change is not meant as a new user feature, e.g. to do distributed tracing
of another software with Checkmk. Nevertheless, we feel it makes sense to
document it here so that you are aware of it when you see the new related
configuration options.

## Goal & requirements

Developers can get easier and better insights into complex and large-scale
production and test environments of Checkmk.

1. The solution shall be usable in a production environment without major
   performance impact.
2. No extra complex setup, such as installation of software in addition to
   Checkmk, shall be required for the traces to be captured and visualized.
3. The solution shall capture execution steps and collect timing information of
   them.
4. For each invocation of these program flows a supporter can visualize traces
   including the nested spans across components.
5. The data can be visualized right in the production environment.
6. No data is sent to any external system except it is explicitly configured by
   the user.

## High level concept

We use OpenTelemetry as the underlying technology for distributed tracing. The
Checkmk applications are instrumented to send traces. Those traces are sent to a
collector, which is running in every Checkmk site or just in the central site,
in case of a distributed Checkmk environment. This collector is Jaeger, which is
a popular open-source distributed tracing tool. The traces are stored in memory
and can be viewed in the Jaeger UI.

## Configuration

Sending and receiving traces is configured through `omd config`. The two options
`TRACE_RECEIVE` and `TRACE_SEND` are used to enable or disable the receiving and
sending of traces.

The `TRACE_RECEIVE` option will tell the Checkmk applications to send traces via
OTLP to a collector, which can be the local Jaeger instance or any other OTLP
collector of your choices.

The option `TRACE_SEND` enables the sites local Jaeger instance. The site apache
enables the exposure of the Jaeger UI via `http://checkmkhost/site_id/jaeger/`.

## Example

If you have just one site and want to enable tracing, set `TRACE_RECEIVE` to `on`.
Secondly set `TRACE_SEND` to on and set `TRACE_SEND_TARGET` to `local_site`.
Then start your site again. You can now access the Jaeger UI via the URL
`http://checkmkhost/site_id/jaeger/`. After a few seconds you should see the
first traces in the UI.

In a distributed setup, you would enable `TRACE_RECEIVE` on the central site and
`TRACE_SEND` on all other sites and point `TRACE_SEND_TARGET` to the central
site's collector (`TRACE_RECEIVE_ADDRESS:TRACE_RECEIVE_PORT`).


Even if tracing is not much overhead locally, and of course some overhead in the
distributed setup, because the traces need to be sent to the central site, we
recommend enabling tracing only when you need it and disable it again when you
don't need it anymore.
