[//]: # (werk v2)
# Fix local IP restriction of internal HTTP endpoints

key        | value
---------- | ---
date       | 2024-06-19T13:46:09+00:00
version    | 2.4.0b1
class      | security
edition    | cre
component  | wato
level      | 1
compatible | yes

Checkmk has some complex functionalities that are hidden behind an internal HTTP endpoint page.
These pages are only meant to be accessed by internal processes, e.g. a cron runner or creating diagrams for notifications.
Therefore these pages are protected to be only accessible locally.
In order to recognize the client IP through the usage of a reverse proxy Checkmk uses the `X-Forwarded-For` header.
That header is added and complemented by `mod_proxy` and usually trustworthy.
When the site apache is exposed directly to the network though (e.g. the default docker setup) no proxy apache is there to curate this header.
To mitigate this the site apache is supposed to filter these internal page URIs to be only accessible by localhost.
This mitigation failed due to some outdated configuration and wrong configuration ordering.

This only affects systems which expose the site apache port to the network typically 5000.
If you run Checkmk behind a reverse proxy (the default if you installed a installation package) you are not affected!

This vulnerability was identified in a commissioned penetration test conducted by PS Positive Security GmbH.

**Affected Versions**:

* 2.3.0
* 2.2.0
* 2.1.0
* 2.0.0 (probably older versions as well)

**Mitigations**:
You can add the following configuration to the site apache configuration, e.g. `etc/apache/conf.d/zzz_werk17011.conf`:

    <Location "/###SITE###/check_mk/run_cron.py">
        Order deny,allow
        Deny from all
        Require local
        Satisfy any
    </Location>
    #  Webservice for graph images used by notifications
    <Location "/###SITE###/check_mk/ajax_graph_images.py">
        Order deny,allow
        Deny from all
        Require local
        Satisfy any
    </Location>

**Indicators of Compromise**:
You can check the apache access log `var/log/apache/access_log` for calls to `run_cron.py` or `ajax_graph_images.py` from network hosts.
E.g. `grep --extended-regexp "^[^-].+(run_cron|ajax_graph_images.py)" var/log/apache/access_log`

**Vulnerability Management**:
We have rated the issue with a CVSS Score of 5.3 (Medium) with the following CVSS vector:
`CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:N`.
We assigned CVE-2024-6163 to this vulnerability.

**Changes**:
This Werk fixes the configuration syntax and ordering.


