[//]: # (werk v2)
# Agent Signature Key Expiry and Notifications

key        | value
---------- | ---
date       | 2025-06-17T13:30:33+00:00
version    | 2.5.0b1
class      | fix
edition    | cee
component  | agents
level      | 1
compatible | no

### Background

Since Checkmk 2.2.0 agent signature keys in the Agent Bakery have inadvertently been created with a shortened lifetime of only two years.
As a result, keys created shortly after the release of Checkmk 2.2.0 are about to expire in the next months.

Since [Werk #15064](https://checkmk.com/werk/15064), imminent key expiry caused the _Check_MK Agent_ service to go to a `WARN` / `CRIT` state, which could cause an overwhelming amount of email notifications for users with a large number of hosts.

### Changes

To avoid sending too many notifications, the _Check_MK Agent_ service will no longer change its state to indicate imminent certificate expiry.
If a key is fully expired, the service will assume a `WARN` state.

Instead of individual notifications per affected host administrators will now receive a user notification within the Checkmk GUI when a key is about to expire in 90 days.
When a key is about to expire in 20 days all users will also receive a warning via email.

The expiry date of your agent signature keys is now displayed in the list of keys in the Agent Bakery.

In addition to that, newly generated signature keys have a lifetime of 10 years.

This Werk is marked incompatible because we recommend that you review your agent signature keys and renew them if they are about to expire.

### Replacing keys before they expire

You can replace signature keys while they are still valid via the agent bakery as follows:

1. Create a new signature key
2. Select that new key under _Signature keys the agent will accept_ in the _Agent updater_ rule (you can uncheck the old key)
3. Bake and sign agents **with the old key**
4. Verify that all agents have been updated

Sign future updates with the new key.

### Replacing expired keys

If the signature key has expired the agent will no longer accept any updates signed with that key.
If no other, still valid keys are available, you will need to force the update on each host manually:

1. Create a new signature key
2. Select that new key under _Signature keys the agent will accept_ in the _Agent updater_ rule (you can uncheck the old key)
3. Bake and sign agents **with the new key**
4. Log into the host and force the update without checking signatures using `cmk-update-agent --skip-signatures`
5. Use `cmk-update-agent show-config` to verify that the update succeeded
