[//]: # (werk v2)
# Combined clustering of discovered and enforced services

key        | value
---------- | ---
date       | 2024-09-24T13:17:51+00:00
version    | 2.4.0b1
class      | fix
edition    | cre
component  | checks
level      | 1
compatible | no

This only affects users that have clustered services that are enforced on some of the clusters nodes, and discovered on others.

If this affects you, we strongly recommend you change your configuration to enforce the services on all nodes (or none of them).

### Previous behavior
In the case where a service was enforced on some nodes and discovered on others, the type of the resulting service on the cluster was determined by which service occured _last_ in the list of the nodes.
In case a discovered service was encountered last, the service on the node would have been a discovered one, being run with whichever parameters where configured on the _cluster_.
In case an enforced service was encountered last, the service would appear as enforced service on the cluster, being checked with the parameters as configured in the _"Enforces services"_ ruleset.

### New behavior
We now changed the logic, such that enforced services always win, regardless of the order they are encountered in.
This is in line with the behavior on an individual node where an enforced services always overrides a discovered one.

The parameters that are used for checking are derived by merging all encountered enforced services parameters, where the nodes precedence is defined by their order in the clusters definition. This again is in line with how Checkmk behaves in other situations when merging parameters.

However, to repeat: **We strongly recommend to always configure the exact same enforced services on all nodes, in case they are clustered**, to avoid any confusion.
