[//]: # (werk v2)
# Distributed piggyback: Piggyback data for distributed setups

key        | value
---------- | ---
date       | 2024-10-21T08:58:28+00:00
version    | 2.4.0b1
class      | feature
edition    | cre
component  | checks
level      | 3
compatible | yes

This feature allows the [piggyback mechanism](https://docs.checkmk.com/latest/en/piggyback.html) to be used across site borders.

In Checkmk versions prior to 2.4, the piggyback source and the piggybacked host always had to be monitored on the same site.
It now suffices if they are part of the same distributed setup.

This is achieved by the introduction of the `piggyback-hub`:
A service that will send incoming piggyback data to whatever site the piggybacked host is monitored on.

The transmitted data will be sent via the newly introduced message broker.
In most setups the messages will be routed via the central site, but direct (_"peer-to-peer"_) connections can be configured in the _Connections_ menu of the _Distributed Monitoring_ Setup page.
The data transport is secured via mTLS.
In the Checkmk MSP Edition, this layer also ensures that communication between different customers is not possible.

The _Piggyback Connector_ of the _Dynamic Configration Daemon_ now also supports the creation of hosts on other sites.

This feature is disabled by default, and can be enabled on one or all sites via each sites `omd config`.
For proper DCD support it needs to be enabled on the central site, even if _peer-to-peer_ connections are configured for the participating remote sites.
