[//]: # (werk v2)
# Disable access to check_mk/local/agents/

key        | value
---------- | ---
date       | 2025-04-08T11:34:47+00:00
version    | 2.4.0b6
class      | security
edition    | cre
component  | omd
level      | 1
compatible | no

Checkmk serves the builtin agents and plugins without authentication via http(s) under `http(s)://fqdn/sitename/check_mk/agents/`.
This allows customers i.a. to install an default agent very easy.
Customized agents that are stored in `local/share/check_mk/agents` are served also without authentication on `http(s)://fqdn/sitename/check_mk/local/agents/`.

If customers use the rule *Deploy custom files with agent* the same path is used.
These custom files are therefore exposed without authentication.
We discourage to transfer/deploy secrets with these files but we must also see what the reality in certain environment is.
Therefore this path is no longer accessible via http(s).

If you rely on that path being accessible you can add a custom configuration file to the site apache, e.g. `etc/apache/conf.d/000_custom.conf`. (Please be aware that the following config must be placed in front of the other config files.)

```text
Alias /sitename/check_mk/local/agents /omd/sites/sitename/local/share/check_mk/agents
<Directory /omd/sites/sitename/local/share/check_mk/agents>
  Options +Indexes
  Order deny,allow
  allow from all
</Directory>
```

We thank Norman Kühnberger (IT Südwestfalen GmbH) for reporting this issue.
 
*Affected Versions*:
 
* 2.4.0 (beta)
* 2.3.0
* 2.2.0
* 2.1.0 (EOL)
 
*Mitigations*:
 
This is a major change and will most likely not be backported to 2.3.0 and 2.2.0.

You should review all files in `local/share/check_mk/agents` and make sure these do not contain any sensitive information.

If you want to disable the path manually you can also add a custom config file e.g. `etc/apache/conf.d/000_werk_17348.conf` with the following content:
```text
Redirect gone /sitename/check_mk/local/agents
```
In case you manually disable this path we recommend to add a http check for that path to monitor that.
 
*Indicators of Compromise*:
 
If you reviewed your files in `local/share/check_mk/agents` and they contained sensitive data you can check if those files were accessed in the apache access log in `var/log/apache/access_log`.
Please be aware that these logs are rotated.
 
*Vulnerability Management*:
 
We have rated the issue with a CVSS Score of 6.3 Medium (`CVSS:4.0/AV:N/AC:L/AT:P/PR:N/UI:N/VC:N/VI:N/VA:N/SC:L/SI:N/SA:N`) and assigned `CVE-2025-3506`.
