[//]: # (werk v2)
# Enhanced Dynamic Host Management(DCD)

key        | value
---------- | ---
date       | 2025-03-21T07:58:36+00:00
version    | 2.5.0b1
class      | feature
edition    | cee
component  | dcd
level      | 3
compatible | no

The dynamic host management, also known as DCD, has been restructured for 
improved reliability, performance, and scalability. The new architecture 
separates the connectors, which generate host data, from the processing cycle 
that manages host updates, service discovery, and activation of changes. 
Connectors operate independently and in parallel, feeding data into a sequential 
host processing cycle, preventing interference and ensuring smoother operations.

The DCD now leverages the feature incremental change activation better, which 
will lead to faster processing.

As a consequence of these changes, the UI has been reworked and includes now a 
table of recent processing cycles as well the ability to analyze each cycle.

New settings in the host manager include:
- Cooldown time after processing cycle
- Time until forced activation of changes after cycle
- Do not monitor hosts without discovered services
 
Please read the inline help for details.
 
With this change, also the logging has been improved for more insights. 
The logs can be found in `~/var/log/dcd.log`. You can set the log level in the 
host manager settings in the dynamic configuration menu.

Incompatible change:
The following options have been moved from the connector settings to the host 
manager settings:
- Group "Activate changes"
- Exclude "Activate changes" for time ranges

A migration of these options is not possible, thus you need to set these 
settings yourself after the update to Checkmk 2.4.0.
