[//]: # (werk v2)
# Deprecation of MSOnline Powershell module in mk_msoffice.ps1

key        | value
---------- | ---
date       | 2025-05-15T10:59:48+00:00
version    | 2.5.0b1
class      | feature
edition    | cee
component  | agents
level      | 2
compatible | no

As of **March 30, 2024**, Microsoft officially deprecated the **MSOnline PowerShell Module**
(end of support: **March 30, 2025**). This means:

- Scripts using versions below **1.1.166.0** will no longer work after **June 30, 2024**.
- Scripts using any version of the MSOnline PowerShell Module will be deprecated
by **March 30, 2025**.

Microsoft encourages migrating these scripts to use the **Microsoft Graph PowerShell SDK**.

## Prerequisites
The following prerequisites are required to use the Microsoft Graph PowerShell SDK:

1. Upgrade to **PowerShell 5.1** or later.
2. Install **.NET Framework 4.7.2** or later.
3. Update **PowerShellGet** to the latest version using: ```Install-Module PowerShellGet```

## Permissions
Please be aware that to connect to **MgGraph** and retrieve license information,
special permissions must be granted in the **Microsoft Entra admin center** to your
app registration:

- **Least privileged permissions**: `LicenseAssignment.Read.All`
- **Higher privileged permissions**: `Directory.Read.All` / `Organization.Read.All`

## Steps to Maintain Compatibility
To maintain compatibility, `mk_msoffice.ps1` has been rewritten to use the new **Microsoft Graph PowerShell SDK** logic.
Perform the following steps to continue using the **"MS Office 365 (Windows)"** feature:

1. Inside the **"MS Office 365 (Windows)"** bakery rule, replace the **username/password** with
a valid **client ID**, **tenant ID**, and **client secret**.

2. Add the following configurations:

   - **Set execution mode for plug-ins and local checks**: Asynchronous.
   - **Set cache age for plug-ins and local checks**: 14400 seconds.
   - **Set timeouts for plug-ins and local checks**: 600 seconds.

**Important:** The old **"MS Office 365 (Windows)"** bakery rule will no longer work
without manual intervention. Please take the above-mentioned actions to prevent
issues with MS Office monitoring on Windows.

## New Feature
A new feature has been added to retrieve the **client secret** from the password store.
