[//]: # (werk v2)
# Introducing notification parameter for notification methods

key        | value
---------- | ---
date       | 2025-03-05T10:15:09+00:00
version    | 2.4.0b1
class      | feature
edition    | cre
component  | notifications
level      | 2
compatible | no

Notification parameters define the look, content and connection details of the notification
method. In previous versions, notification parameters were part of notification rules,
defined within a notification rule in section "Notification method".

From now on, the "notification parameter" will be its own standalone
configuration. Once you've created a parameter configuration, you can then map
it to any notification rule you want.

***Advantages***

* Reusable
* Easy to set up
* Scalable: If something changes about a method, you can change it in one place
  instead of needing to access any rule

You can access the "Parameters for notification" page via "Setup" -
"Notifications". This page shows all notification methods and the number of
configured parameter. If you select a method, you will be linked to the
"Parameters for.." page of that method. Here you can create, edit and find all
defined parameters for a specific method. Parameters can only be deleted, if
they are not used in a rule. The system will warn you if you try it anyway.

Creating a new notification parameter is only slightly different to the
previous "Notification method" section. The following options can or have to
be set:

***General properties (new)***

* Description (required)
* Comment
* Documentation URL

***Parameter properties (as in previous section "Notification method")***

* depends of the notification method

### Migrating existing notification rules

All existing rules will be migrated on update.
The update step creates a backup file of your old configuration rules within
`/opt/omd/site/SITENAME/notifications_backup.mk`. In case of any problems after
the update you can copy this file to
`/opt/omd/site/SITENAME/etc/check_mk/conf.d/wato/notifications.mk`, fix the
shown problems and run 'cmk-update-config' as site user again.

Converted parameters have a description like "Migrated from notification rule
\#11". Note that in the old notification rule system multiple rules could have
the same parameters. If the parameters for one method are identical, only one
migrated parameter will be created.
