[//]: # (werk v2)
# smart: Deprecate legacy plug-in

key        | value
---------- | ---
date       | 2025-04-03T06:25:19+00:00
version    | 2.4.0b6
class      | fix
edition    | cee
component  | checks
level      | 1
compatible | no

The agent plug-in `smart` is deprecated.
This plug-in and the corresponding check plug-ins will no longer receive updates.
The new plug-in `smartposix` will become the default.

## What to do now?

Neither updating to 2.4 nor redeploying the legacy plug-in will affect existing monitoring.
Existing bakery rules are automatically migrated to still use the legacy plug-in.
We recommended deploying the new plug-in onto hosts, which are not monitored yet.
However, deploying the new plug-in instead of the old plug-in will require rediscovering the `SMART` services.
Morever, some features to allow for a smooth transition are not available, yet.
Once this is the case, we will announce the transition period in a dedicated Werk and with an update action.
The transition period will last for one major release cycle.

## Users of the 2.4 beta

In Werk [Werk #17210](https://checkmk.com/werk/17210) we announced that the `smart` agent plug-in was superseded by `smartposix`.
At the time, we assumed that the plug-in could be used as a drop-in replacement.
Thus, the option to deploy the plugin via the bakery was changed to deploy the new plug-in.

With this Werk, the old plug-in is available via the bakery again.
Existing bakery rules will now deploy the old plug-in again.

## How do existing services change upon deploying the new plug-in?

These are some known changes:

* There will no longer be one service for each NVMe namespace.
  There is no namespace specific information defined in the SMART / Health log page.
  Thus, the new plug-in only exposes one service per NVMe disk.
* The old plug-in works with LSI 3ware SATA RAID controller, LSI MegaRAID SAS RAID
  controller and Dell PERC 5/i,6/i controller.
  We are actively working on supporting these controllers in the new plug-in,
  but it is not possible to transition, yet.
* The new plug-in requires `smartctl` version 7.0 or higher.
