[//]: # (werk v2)
# Customize agent package: Misbehavior in legacy pull activation

key        | value
---------- | ---
date       | 2025-04-29T06:21:52+00:00
version    | 2.5.0b1
class      | fix
edition    | cee
component  | agents
level      | 1
compatible | yes

When installing an agent package including the agent controller for the
first time on a host, the legacy pull mechanism is automatically activated to
allow unencrypted communication until a first registration happens.

Until now, this was done based of the existence of the `cmk-agent` user.<br>
If it exists already, we can expect that an agent controller is already
installed or has been installed in the past.<br>
We then enabled legacy pull only together with the creation of the `cmk-agent` user.

With the new _Customize agent package_ ruleset, this is now no longer
possible, since we can now choose the name of the agent (controller) user,
or even use an arbitrary existing user.

Even worse: When following the old logic, registered connections even
do get deleted on update when changing the agent controller user name.

Hence, we now simply look for the existence of registered connections
on installation/update.
If no registered connections exist, we expect the installation to be
new and enable legacy pull mode.

Note: This change is compatible to the behavior described in the documentation,
which only mentions that the agent controller acts in legacy pull mode after
initial installation.<br>
Additionally, it only happens on usage of the new _Customize agent package_
ruleset.<br>
Hence, this Werk is marked as compatible.

