[//]: # (werk v2)
# Linux agent: single directory deployment

key        | value
---------- | ---
date       | 2025-04-23T09:55:14+00:00
version    | 2.5.0b1
class      | feature
edition    | cee
component  | agents
level      | 2
compatible | yes

It's now possible to deploy the Checkmk agent under a single directory on Linux systems.

## What does this mean?
When installing a Checkmk agent on a Linux (or UNIX) host, its contents are distributed over
multiple folders, like `/usr/lib/check_mk_agent`, `/var/lib/check_mk_agent`,
`/etc/check_mk`, `/usr/bin`.
While this approach loosely follows the filesystem hierarchy standard for UNIX-like systems,
it also violates it in some details.

Since there is no real advantage in this approach, and it's sometimes hard to overview all
agent related files, we now offer to install the Checkmk agent under one single root directory
on Linux systems, which defaults to `/opt/checkmk/agent/default`.

## New bakery ruleset _Customize agent package (Linux)_
You can deploy the agent files under a single directory by entering a path at the new agent bakery
ruleset _Customize agent package (Linux)_, under _Installation directories: Directory for Checkmk agent_.

This path defaults to `/opt/checkmk/agent`, and it's active as soon as you add a rule instance.
Please note that the agent installation will always create one additional `default` subfolder, so the final
agent installation directory is `<installation_directory>/default`.

Note: There is also an optional _Customize user_ entry that can be used to enable the new non-root agent deployment,
which is described in more detail in Werk #17901.

The ruleset _Customize agent package (Linux)_ is also a replacement for the
_Installation paths for agent files (Linux, UNIX)_ ruleset. When configuring both rulesets, the
new _Customize agent package (Linux)_ ruleset will win, and the other one will be ignored.
Though, when currently using the old ruleset, please keep it activated while updating to the new
ruleset, since the agent package needs the custom installation paths to properly migrate runtime
files on agent update.

After configuring _Customize agent package (Linux)_ and baking agents, you can either install
the resulting packages manually on target hosts, or letting them update on next automatic
agent update.

We plan to make the single directory deployment the new standard. Hence, the ruleset
_Installation paths for agent files(Linux, UNIX)_ will be removed in a future Checkmk release,
so we recommend to use the new approach of _Customize agent package (Linux)_ instead.

## Is this ruleset really Linux-only?
You can configure the _Customize agent package_ ruleset as described above, bake agents,
and observe that all resulting UNIX-like packages come with the new single directory structure.
Hence, the answer is: Yes, the single directory depoyment is available for all baked agents for
UNIX-like systems. However, we declare the whole feature as Linux-only because only managed
packages (`.rpm` and `.deb`) come with the whole featureset. This includes the migration of
existing Checkmk agent installations and making shipped executables available under symlinks
at `/usr/bin` (since they are located under `/opt/checkmk/agent/default/package/bin` now and
are not directly available in `$PATH`).

## Some technical details (FYI)
When choosing the single directory deployment, all contents of the Checkmk agent will be installed under
the folder `<configured_directory>/default`, which itself will contain two subfolders `package` and `runtime`.
`package` contains all static agent files resulting from the Agent Bakery configuration; `runtime` is there
for all files that get created while agent operation. This includes state files, logs, cache files, etc..

Internally, the agent finds its files with the help of some environment variables that exist equally for the
old multiple directory deployment, like `MK_LIBDIR`, `MK_VARDIR`, `MK_BIN`, `MK_CONFDIR`.
Additionally, there is now the new environment variable `MK_INSTALLDIR` that acts, when existant, as a switch
to activate the single directory deployment. When available, the agent will set all environment variables
by itself based on `MK_INSTALLDIR`, e.g., `MK_LIBDIR=${MK_INSTALLDIR}/package`.

