[//]: # (werk v2)
# Fix broken central site label matching

key        | value
---------- | ---
date       | 2025-04-08T05:48:33+00:00
version    | 2.5.0b1
class      | fix
edition    | cre
component  | multisite
level      | 1
compatible | no

Previously, agent rules that defined the "`cmk/site`" host label as a
matching condition matched:

1. All hosts if the condition was `cmk/site:{current_site}` where
   `{current_site}` is the name of the site you are currently accessing.
2. No hosts if you specified any other `cmk/site` value

With this werk, we fixed an underlying bug where in the rule matching,
all hosts were assigned the `cmk/site:{current_site}` label regardless
of what site the host is being monitored on.

Hosts now properly report the site they're being monitored on as the
`cmk/site` label value.

*Note*: [Werk #17335](https://checkmk.com/werk/17335) already attempted to address this problem but was
ineffective.

**Attention, incompatible change:**

This changes which hosts are affected by agent rules matching on the
`cmk/site` label. If you have any agent rules matching on the `cmk/site`
host label, your agent bakery is affected:

Any agent rules matching on the `cmk/site` host label of the
**current site** now no longer match hosts of ALL sites, only on hosts
of the current site.

Any agent rules matching on the `cmk/site` host label of
**other sites** now no longer match on hosts of the current site, only
on hosts of that other site.

*Example*: If you are logged into your central site "central" and bake
agents with an agent rule that applies to hosts with label
`cmk/site:remote`, the rule would never have been active before this
werk.
