[//]: # (werk v2)
# HW/SW Inventory: Rework housekeeping job

key        | value
---------- | ---
date       | 2025-07-09T12:11:32+00:00
version    | 2.5.0b1
class      | fix
edition    | cre
component  | inv
level      | 1
compatible | no

Previously the inventory archive files were handled by the diskspace cleanup
job and the history entries were handled by a separate housekeeping job. There
was no cleanup job for the inventory or status data tree file.

Now the HW/SW Inventory has its own housekeeping job and own cleanup parameters below
`Setup > General > Global settings > Site management > Cleanup HW/SW Inventory files`
The `diskspace` job does **not** handle inventory files anymore.

These parameters can be configured per host (explicit match or regex).

 * Remove history entries older than the configured file age.

     This may be useful for hosts with few changes within a long period of time.

 * Remove history entries right after entry number `X`.

     This may be useful for hosts with many changes within a short period of time.

 * **Defensive cleanup strategy:** Remove history entries older than the configured file age **AND**
   remove history entries right after entry number `X`.

     See example below.

 * **Offensive cleanup strategy:** Remove history entries older than the configured file age **OR**
   remove history entries right after entry number `X`.

     See example below.

A history entry is composed of two subsequent archive files and a delta cache
file. The delta cache file may be missing because it was not computed yet.

Similar to the `diskspace` parameters the HW/SW Inventory housekeeping cleans
up abandoned host files which are older than 30 days by default. This parameter
is also configurable. Abandoned host files include

 * Inventory tree files

 * Status data tree files

 * Archive files

 * Delta cache files

The default is set to `Remove history entries older than 400 days and remove history entries right after entry number 100` for new sites.
Existing sites don't have a default.

The housekeeping job runs once a day.

#### Examples:

`now = 11`, `history entries = [10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1]` (represents the files and their timestamps)

 * Remove history entries older than 6, remove history entries right after entry number 3

    * Intermediate result `file age`: `[5, 4, 3, 2, 1]`

    * Intermediate result `number of history entries`: `[7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1]`

    * Result of **AND**: Remove `[5, 4, 3, 2, 1]` (it's the intersection of both intermediate results)

    * Result of **OR**: Remove `[7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1]` (it's the union of both intermediate results)

 * Remove history entries older than 4, remove history entries right after entry number 6

    * Intermediate result `file age`: `[7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1]`

    * Intermediate result `number of history entries`: `[4, 3, 2, 1]`

    * Result of **AND**: Remove `[4, 3, 2, 1]` (it's the intersection of both intermediate results)

    * Result of **OR**: Remove `[7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1]` (it's the union of both intermediate results)
