[//]: # (werk v2)
# Fix REST API saving unmigrated rule values if migrated values pass validation

key        | value
---------- | ---
date       | 2025-06-16T12:41:11+00:00
version    | 2.5.0b1
class      | fix
edition    | cre
component  | rest-api
level      | 1
compatible | yes

When creating a new rule with the REST API, it was possible that Checkmk stored values that did not match the **"value_raw"** field reported in the API response.

During validation, the **"value_raw"** field would be migrated first _then_ checked.

Depending on the plugin migration logic, the validation might succeed after migration, but the unmigrated value would then be persisted and cause issues with the associated plugin later on (during a check or some other plugin action).

For example, with the **diskstat_inventory** rule, with **"value_raw"** set to `{'summary': True}`, validation will succeed and the API will report  `{'summary': True, 'lvm': False, 'vxvm': False, 'diskless': False}` as the stored data. However Checkmk will currently store **"value_raw"** as provided.

As of this fix, when persisting the rule data, migration is now performed which ensures the plugin has the correct rule data and also ensures that the reported API response matches what was actually persisted.

If you used the REST API to create rules, it is likely that there is invalid rule data stored on disk. 

This data will only be fixed if:

* `cmk-update-config` is run.
* Checkmk is updated to a different version. 
* The specific rules are updated via the GUI.
* (With this fix) The rules are updated again via the API.


