[//]: # (werk v2)
# OTel: Remove explicit passwords from collector configuration

 key        | value
------------|---------------------------
 date       | 2025-11-10T11:03:07+00:00
 version    | 2.4.0p17
 class      | fix
 edition    | cce
 component  | wato
 level      | 1
 compatible | no

You are affected by this Werk if you are using the experimental OpenTelemetry
integration and your collector configuration includes explicit passwords.

Previously the OpenTelemetry receiver collector configuration offered the option
to add explicit passwords as credentials for the endpoint authentication.
These passwords were written in plaintext into the Checkmk configuration on
disk.
When providing the collector with its configuration, all passwords were also
written in plaintext into the configuration file.

With this Werk, explicit passwords can no longer be configured and passwords
will no longer be stored in plain text to improve security.
Instead, only passwords stored in the passwordstore can be selected as
credentials in the collector configurations.
There is an option to directly create and store a new password when making the
selection.
The configured passwords are then provided as environment variables to the
collector.

Passwords that were previously explicitly configured in the OpenTelemetry
collector configuration have been added to the password store during the update.
This Werk is marked as incompatible since these passwords can only be seen and
edited by administrators.
Existing configurations will still work, but when editing them you will either
need to provide a new password or contact your administrator to provide access
to the updated passwords.
