[//]: # (werk v2)
# netapp_ontap_{volumes,snapshots}: Allow continued use of old netapp_api_{volumes,snapshots} service name

 key        | value
------------|---------------------------
 date       | 2026-02-09T17:24:36+00:00
 version    | 2.4.0p26
 class      | fix
 edition    | cre
 component  | checks
 level      | 1
 compatible | no

[Werk #16324](https://checkmk.com/werk/16324) announced the migration of the
NetApp volumes and NetApp snapshots plugins to use the NetApp ONTAP REST-API.
This change introduced an incompatibility with existing service names: The
NetApp volumes and NetApp snapshots plugins have changed the service name
separator from a dot to a colon.
Specifically, service names produced by these check plugins now use the
format "(Snapshots) Volume {svm_name}:{volume_name}" instead of "(Snapshots)
Volume {svm_name}.{volume_name}".
[Werk #16324](https://checkmk.com/werk/16324)  has been updated to reflect this
incompatibility.

To address the change in service names, the global setting "Use new service
names" has been extended for the affected NetApp plugins.
This option allows users to revert to the old service names if needed.

Please note that enabling this option after new services have already been
discovered will cause a gap in the monitoring data for the old services during
the period when the new services were active.
Additionally, this option does not work for services monitoring SVMs or volumes
whose names contain a colon. In such cases, the new service names will be
retained.

When updating from Checkmk version 2.3, this option will be automatically
disabled to keep the old service names.
However, a new service discovery is still required to apply the naming changes.
By default, the option remains enabled.

