[//]: # (werk v2)
# Adjust DCD-based OpenTelemetry metrics monitoring to new metric backend

key        | value
---------- | ---
date       | 2025-12-17T11:23:54+00:00
version    | 2.5.0b1
class      | feature
edition    | cce
component  | dcd
level      | 1
compatible | no

Checkmk 2.5 introduces a [new backend](https://checkmk.com/werk/18906) for storing and querying OpenTelemetry metrics, which requires adjustments to the DCD-based monitoring of these metrics originally introduced in [Werk 17524](https://checkmk.com/werk/17524).
The key changes are as follows:

- A new DCD connector has been introduced.
  This connector queries the backend and creates hosts from the retrieved time series.
  It enables users to define a resource attribute key and then creates one host for each unique value of this resource attribute key, optionally restricted by futher attribute filters.

- A new host attribute has been introduced.
  If set, this attribute associates the host with time series data stored in the metric backend.
  It is set by the new DCD connector introduced above to configure the OpenTelemetry metrics monitored as services of the host.

- The actual monitoring in terms of services and threshold configurations remains unchanged.
  However, to prevent system overload, a limit of 500 OpenTelemetry metrics (i.e., 500 services) per host has been introduced.

- Incompatiblity: This Werk is marked as incompatible because the DCD connector for monitoring OpenTelemetry metrics introduced in version 2.4 (_Opentelemetry collector data_) has been removed.
  As OpenTelemetry support was experimental only in Checkmk 2.4, there is no automatic migration to the new connector introduced above.
  Users have to re-create their connections manually.
