[//]: # (werk v3)
# Dashboard: Unified Filtering Experience

key        | value
---------- | ---
date       | 2026-02-06T07:59:48+00:00
version    | 3.0.0b1
class      | feature
edition    | community
component  | wato
level      | 3
compatible | yes

The filter experience has been overhauled to centralize the configurations and provide more transparency.

* **New Filter Terminology:**
    * **Runtime Filters:** Filters that can be adjusted ad-hoc while viewing a dashboard.
    * **Required Runtime Filters:** (Formerly "Required Context Filters") Filters adjusted by the dashboard admin to be easily accessible in the filter menu.
    * **Default Filters:** Preconfigured filters with set values by the dashboard admin which apply to all widgets unless overridden (see point below)
    * **Applied Filters:** A new section displayed in multiple areas of the dashboard configuration that presents an overall view of all currently active filters. This provides clarity on exactly what is being filtered, replacing the previous, more obscure mechanism.  
* **Unified Location:** The new experience brings together settings previously found in the dashboard properties page and the context filters previously accessible via the filter icon in the dashboard menu into a single, unified location.  
* **Merge vs. Overwrite:** It is now possible to toggle in the UI between two different modes on how the runtime filters should be applied to the dashboard
    * Merge: The applied runtime filters are merged together with the configured default filters and applied to the dashboard. Runtime filters have precedence in case the same default filter is configured
    * Overwrite: All default filters are ignored and only the runtime filters are applied to the dashboard  
* **Live Application Update:** Previously, any filter configuration application required a full page load to take the configuration filters into effect. This requirement has been removed, and the application is now instantaneous, updating the content of all widgets immediately.
