[//]: # (werk v3)
# Dashboard: Public Dashboard Sharing

key        | value
---------- | ---
date       | 2026-02-06T08:02:03+00:00
version    | 2.5.0b1
class      | feature
edition    | community
component  | wato
level      | 3
compatible | yes

Dashboards can now be made externally accessible to viewers without requiring authentication to Checkmk.

* **Sharing a Dashboard:** Users with the appropriate permissions have access to a new Share dashboard tab. As the standard dashboard experience can vary based on user permissions and contact groups, the public dashboard will rely on the data context and permissions of the user who shared the dashboard (issued or activated the token). To ensure data consistency, the sharing token is automatically disabled if changes are made to the dashboard configuration or its linked views.
* **Dedicated Public URL:** A shared dashboard receives its own dedicated public URL. This URL is based on a token to obstruct information and is tied to an expiry date that can be edited in the sharing settings. Access can be managed by temporarily disabling or completely deleting the token. For the Checkmk Community, the maximum expiry duration for a shared dashboard is 30 days.
* **Fixed Default Filters:** Shared dashboards are presented with the default filters as configured by the sharer. Viewers cannot modify or apply filters at runtime.

Note: Shared dashboards query live data for every page load and widget refresh. Consider using an external caching and rate-limiting layer if you expect many users.