[//]: # (werk v2)
# Checkmk Edition Renaming

key        | value
---------- | ---
date       | 2025-11-19T10:01:10+00:00
version    | 2.3.0p44
class      | feature
edition    | cre
component  | core
level      | 3
compatible | no

To simplify our product portfolio and improve clarity, we are updating the names
of the Checkmk editions. This change is being rolled out across multiple
releases, affecting product titles, internal identifiers, and package names,
depending on the release.

## Checkmk 2.3 and 2.4

In the stable versions 2.3 and 2.4, the **product titles** are changed to
maintain consistency with the new product lineup on the website and in other
customer-facing communication that is changed short before the 2.5 release. The
internal identifiers remain unchanged in these releases to ensure stability and
compatibility. The following renamings will be executed:

* Checkmk Raw Edition to Checkmk Community
* Checkmk Enterprise Edition to Checkmk Pro
* Checkmk Cloud Edition to Checkmk Ultimate
* Checkmk Managed Services Edition to Checkmk Ultimate with Multi-Tenancy
* Checkmk Cloud (SaaS) to Checkmk Cloud
* Identifiers `raw` and `cre` remain unchanged
* Identifiers `enterprise` and `cee` remain unchanged
* Identifiers `cloud` and `cce` remain unchanged
* Identifiers `managed` and `cme` remain unchanged
* Identifiers `saas` and `cse` remain unchanged

For example, package names will thus not change, so that any scripts for
downloading and installing should not be impacted.

## Checkmk 2.5

With the release of Checkmk 2.5, product titles and edition identifiers are
changed. The long identifiers (e.g. `raw`, `enterprise`) are changed. The short
identifiers (e.g. `cre`, `cee`) are replaced with the long identifiers to reduce
the complexity. The following renamings will be executed:

* Checkmk Raw Edition to Checkmk Community
* Checkmk Enterprise Edition to Checkmk Pro
* Checkmk Cloud Edition to Checkmk Ultimate
* Checkmk Managed Services Edition to Checkmk Ultimate with Multi-Tenancy
* Checkmk Cloud (SaaS) to Checkmk Cloud
* Identifiers `raw` and `cre` to `community`
* Identifiers `enterprise` and `cee` to `pro`
* Identifiers `cloud` and `cce` to `ultimate`
* Identifiers `managed` and `cme` to `ultimatemt`
* Identifiers `saas` and `cse` to `cloud`

## Things to verify before updating to 2.5

This change is quite fundamental to the Checkmk ecosystem and likely have an
impact on community extensions and your automations. Please note the following:

1. The three-letter **short identifiers** (e.g., `cre`, `cee`) are replaced. If
   you use them somewhere, you will have to change to the long identifiers.
2. **Packages** are renamed (e.g., `check-mk-enterprise-...` to
   `check-mk-pro-...`). Should you use any kind of script or automation, you
   will have to update it.
3. Our **docker images** are renamed as well. From 2.5 on all docker images
   can be found on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/u/checkmk) using the new
   identifiers. *Please note:* Checkmk Pro (formerly enterprise) is moved from
   our private registry to Docker Hub as well. All deployments need to be
   updated to pull the images using the new names.
4. Users who query **Livestatus** on the `edition` field in the table `status`
   need to adjust their queries. When your queries are executed against
   multiple Checkmk versions, you need to use `program_version` to disambiguate
   the response, as the `edition` field change to the new long name, which
   could introduce ambiguity (e.g., `cloud` refers to Checkmk Cloud (SaaS) from
   2.5 on and the Checkmk Cloud (self-hosted) edition in 2.4).
* The **REST API** uses the new identifiers as well.
  1. If you interact with the `/version` endpoint, you will notice that the
     `edition` field now returns the new identifiers.
  2. The HTTP header `X-Checkmk-Edition` contains the new identifiers
* The Grafana data source has been updated to adapt to the new edition names. So
  you should update the Checkmk Grafana data source extension to the latest
  version before updating to 2.5.
