[//]: # (werk v3)
# Mainline core features from Cisco Meraki MKP

key        | value
---------- | ---
date       | 2026-03-23T13:16:58.866614+00:00
version    | 2.5.0b2
class      | feature
edition    | community
component  | checks
level      | 1
compatible | no

The Cisco Meraki plugin family now includes new check and inventory plugins that
were previously available on the [Checkmk Exchange][1] by thl-cmk. In addition,
the existing device and license checks have been extended and improved.

Unfortunately, the existing plugin rules for device statuses and licenses
overview are now incompatible with the new ones. Therefore, we recommend
creating new rules for these plugins.

> **Notice:** for users who are using the MKP from the Exchange, we recommend
> disabling and/or removing this integration before upgrading Checkmk to 2.5. We
> also recommend a fresh start for your existing rules to make sure that
> everything works well.

The special agent now supports new configuration options to accommodate this
expanded functionality. New options to the special agent include:

- Specifying your region to determine the appropriate API endpoint.
- Using organization ID and/or network ID as a host prefix for piggyback data.
- Disabling the cache for all endpoints.
- Setting a cache interval for each resource type, e.g. appliances.

Refer to the inline help for detailed information on each option.

With the introduction of new agent sections, the number of available plugins has
increased significantly. The following check plugins have been added:

- API response codes
- Appliance performance
- Appliance uplinks
- Appliance VPNs
- Device uplinks
- Switch ports statuses
- Wireless SSID statuses
- Wireless ethernet statuses

Additionally, new inventory plugins have also been added for device information,
licenses overview, networks, organizations, switch port statuses (covering
interfaces, CDP, and LLDP), uplinks information, and wireless Ethernet statuses.
These inventory plugins help users maintain an overview of their network assets.

Users should update their special agent to take full advantage of these new and
improved plugins and benefit from enhanced monitoring and inventory
capabilities.

[1]: https://exchange.checkmk.com/p/cisco-meraki
