doc/documentation/arch-comp-rrdcached.rst, before:

================================
rrdcached - The RRD cache daemon
================================

Introduction and goals
======================

The rrdcached is a 3rd party component provided by the rrdtool project.

The time series data of our metric system is stored in RRD databases in the
file system of a OMD site. The rrdcached helps to optimize the IO with these RRD
databases.

Since we are producing continuous write operations this is an important feature
in larger setups because the disk IO is almost always a limiting factor in
scaling out.

The rrdcached receives updates to existing RRD files from the monitoring core,
accumulates them and, if enough have been received or a defined time has passed,
writes the updates to the RRD file. A flush command may be used to force writing
of values to disk, so that graphing facilities and similar can work with
up-to-date data.

See also
--------
- :doc:`arch-comp-core`
- `User manual: Graphing - The RRDS <https://docs.checkmk.com/master/en/graphing.html#rrds>`_
- `rrdcached man page <https://oss.oetiker.ch/rrdtool/doc/rrdcached.en.html>`_

Commit message:

Extend 3rd party docs
* Add NagVis component article
* Add interface chapter to rrdcached article

Change-Id: I17e93e94461bc4850c906a416d385fef745e1c7d

doc/documentation/arch-comp-rrdcached.rst, after:

================================
rrdcached - The RRD cache daemon
================================

Introduction and goals
======================

The rrdcached is a 3rd party component provided by the rrdtool project.

The time series data of our metric system is stored in RRD databases in the
file system of a OMD site. The rrdcached helps to optimize the IO with these RRD
databases.

Since we are producing continuous write operations this is an important feature
in larger setups because the disk IO is almost always a limiting factor in
scaling out.

The rrdcached receives updates to existing RRD files from the monitoring core,
accumulates them and, if enough have been received or a defined time has passed,
writes the updates to the RRD file. A flush command may be used to force writing
of values to disk, so that graphing facilities and similar can work with
up-to-date data.

Interfaces
----------

The :doc:`arch-comp-core` is communicating with the rrdcached over it's command
socket `tmp/run/rrdcached.sock`. The protocol is described in the
`rrdcached man page <https://oss.oetiker.ch/rrdtool/doc/rrdcached.en.html>`_.

See also
--------
- :doc:`arch-comp-core`
- `User manual: Graphing - The RRDS <https://docs.checkmk.com/master/en/graphing.html#rrds>`_
- `rrdcached man page <https://oss.oetiker.ch/rrdtool/doc/rrdcached.en.html>`_
